{
    "slug": "site-rules",
    "title": "Site Rules"
}

{{< figure src="https://turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/1302215820_b572c56321.jpg" attrlink="http://www.flickr.com/photos/71419691@N00/1302215820/" attr="spunkinator" caption="Please Keep Off The Lawns." >}}

## My Writing

Like anyone on the net I have opinions. I write them here. They don't
reflect the opinions or position of my employer, my wife, or anyone else
I know. If they offend you, then please let me know, but please don't
presume I meant to - I'm human and make mistakes. Sometimes my opinions
are wrong.

## Your Comments

I encourage you to comment, and I believe the commenter should have
ownership of the comment - meaning you should have the right to edit or
delete your comments as you see fit, technology permitting. If you would
like a comment of yours deleted, and it's not immediately possible for
you to do so, please get in touch below and I'll happily oblige. Please
be aware though, that if your comment is anonymous, or I cannot
determine that you are the original commenter, that I reserve the right
to use my discretion, and may not wish to delete it. For full ownership
rights, your comment should not be made anonymously.

Additionally, I will not alter your comments in any way, unless an
otherwise worthwhile comment contains a signature or sign off that is
too verbose or plugs a product or site. In such a case I reserve the
right to remove the signature without altering the text of the comment.
I'll try to get in touch before I do this, but my above concerns about
anonymity apply.

If I find a comment offensive or inappropriate, I will not edit the
comment - I will simply delete it. However, I try to be open minded so
unless it's particularly inappropriate or is spammy it's probably a
technical glitch if your comment didn't appear. If you suspect something
has gone wrong please write to me.

## Permanency

I will try to keep this site up in some form for a long time. If you
don't want your words around for a long time, consider not writing here
- it is the internet after all. Conversely, please don't assume that
this will last forever. I can't guarantee that your comments here will
last for all time. Maybe start your own site and link to my posts if you
are worried about such things. WordPress.org is a good place to start.

## This page

This page is not meant to be a legal document - I am just spelling out
what might happen around here. Please ask a question if you'd like
clarification about anything.
