{
    "date": "2010-03-30 11:46:38",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2010-03-30 11:46:38",
    "slug": "a-bunch-of-stuff",
    "title": "A Bunch of Stuff",
    "url": "\/a-bunch-of-stuff\/",
    "tags": [
        "awesome",
        "friend",
        "fun",
        "technology",
        "Twitter"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Life"
    ]
}[![Keep
Calm](//farm4.static.flickr.com/3575/3495363654_cf67d4a9ff.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/cole007/3495363654/)

Good advice.\
<http://www.flickr.com/photos/cole007/> / [CC BY-NC-ND
2.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/)

Some updates:

Spurred on by the outpouring of comments and (!) blog posts after asking
for feedback, I got stuck into a few posts here and on my other site.
Thank you everyone who responded and wrote replies - it gave me some
much needed confidence and meant the world to me. I was buoyed for days
afterwards (and loved the commentfest that followed here and elsewhere).

I [officially quit
Twitter](http://twitter.com/joshnunn/status/10655459092) (with my
joshnunn account at least). I was leaving it open ended so I could come
back without looking like a fool, but now I'll have to hang my head in
shame if I DO return.

[First Waves](//the.geekorium.com.au/read/google-wave/) is going
great-guns. [tjb654](http://twitter.com/tjb654/status/11109224348)
tweeted "[Wave on Slow Cook](//the.geekorium.com.au/wave-on-slow-cook/)"
and was retweeted by Pamela Fox (one of the Wave API evangelists). So I
got a bunch of new readers and some more [Facebook
Fans](http://www.facebook.com/pages/First-Waves/336041699450)!

I began re-working [my portfolio](http://www.joshnunn.com.au) site. I
couldn't be bothered installing a test environment on my laptop, so I
put it up and started editing it live. It took me a little longer than I
expected to make it usable though, as the documentation for
[MODx](http://modxcms.com/) ((I thought I'd try something new)) went
down just as I started, so I couldn't figure out how to build menus.
Eventually I got something I'm happy with up just before...

[Lifehacker
(![]()![]()%20linked%20to%20my%20site)](http://lifehacker.com/5503957/the-file-cabinet-standing-desk)
What the F is that about?! I suspect I've stepped into a mirror world
where the Joshua Nunn of this world produces things that interest people
and that they want to read. I kinda feel sorry for the poor schmuck who
got sucked into my universe, but then I remember he probably goes around
with a goatee, so it serves him right.

Tonight I published a [massive post on First
Waves](//the.geekorium.com.au/why-email-needs-replacing-or-why-wave-matters/).
I suspect that because I'm *massively* proud of it, it won't be read by
anyone and I'll realise that my mirror-self managed to reverse the
polarity of the neutron flow and switch us back... bastard. Or I could
be pleasantly surprised that I get some people reading it. I've paid for
a [Clicky](http://getclicky.com/183555) account, so now I'll know when
YOU are reading this... unless you're using a feed reader... or I'm not
on my computer when you do... What was i saying? This point has
descended into a [Rubenerd](//rubenerd.com/)-esq sort of ramble. My
apologies.