{
    "date": "2007-03-12 09:56:57",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2007-03-12 09:56:57",
    "slug": "another-blog-really",
    "title": "Another Blog? Really?",
    "url": "\/another-blog-really\/",
    "tags": [
        "personal",
        "Tech"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Education"
    ]
}This was my first thought when Al said he'd created an EduBlogs blog for
me. I already blog infrequently on two of my own blogs, and it seems
every website that ever tried to be 'two point oh' offers a free blog. I
have an unused blogger account, a wordpress blog that I had to sign up
for to use Akismet (an antispam plugin), and if I'd ever been suckered
in to using MySpace, Facebook, or any other social site I'd be drowning
in the guilt of too many unused blogs.

But I'm not going to feel guilty about this one. I recently made a vow
to myself to do something creative daily, and one of the options I gave
myself was to blog. Maybe it wont be here, but I should be blogging more
regularly. About the same time, Al and a couple of other bloggers he
linked to have been inspiring me to have a bit of a say about education.
I hesitated because my perspective is not unique - there are hundreds of
other IT people in the South Australian education system. I also
hesitated because I fear that there is not much I can say that hasn't
been said already by people who can write betterer.

But Al's pushed it and forced my hand, now despite your protests I will
not stay silent. Forgive me.

Come back here occasionally to hear my thoughts on education from the
perspective of a non-teaching tech guy. I work in two schools where
technology in education is highly valued, but often not fully
appreciated.

I can understand WHY teachers find it difficult to see the benefit of
the latest technologies - teachers are bombarded from every direction
with the promises of easier teaching, more engaging programs, wonderful
new paradigms that will forever alter... you've heard it all before.

If you are a student you'll have heard your teacher tell you about
amazing new things that you and your friends have been doing for years
already. But students are making this stuff up themselves. They're using
technology in ways that the creators never even imagined. It's up to
teachers and the tech people they work with to find ways to use the
technology to engage students, rather than trying to remove it forcibly
from their lives.

I don't presume to know what the technology of tomorrow will look like
or how it will be used (although I know what I want it to look like, and
how I think it should be used), but I want to be there to see how it
evolves.