{
    "date": "2009-09-30 13:37:44",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2009-09-30 13:37:44",
    "slug": "cloth-nappies-a-blokey-perspective",
    "title": "Cloth Nappies - a blokey perspective.",
    "url": "\/cloth-nappies-a-blokey-perspective\/",
    "tags": [
        "housewife",
        "kittens",
        "nappies",
        "unicorns"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Share"
    ]
}So while I'm girly-blogging (see my [cupcake
post](//the.geekorium.com.au/rocketships-monster-trucks-and-flamethrowers/)
from earlier today) I thought I'd share a bit about our use of cloth
nappies. I'll try and give a blokey perspective, and as Mil says guys
talking about cloth nappies are hot, I'll willingly give it a go.

Before our little one was born, Mil convinced me to give cloth a chance.
Cloth nappies are reusable and softer than disposable, and over the two
to three years a kid can be wearing them, can save you a lot of money.

I love the smug feeling I get from using cloth nappies ((yes, I know I
could be doing more for the environment!)), but the biggest draw for me
was just doing the math.

Over two years, at six changes per day, with nappies ranging in price
from 39-66 cents per nappy, disposables would start in price at \$1708
((2 x 365 x 6 x 0.39 = )). This is the absolute least it would cost for
only two years of disposable nappies. All it would take for this cost to
blow out is more changes per day, a slightly less cheap-and-nasty nappy,
or for the child to take longer than two years to be potty trained.
Cloth on the other hand has cost us about \$1100 for a supply that
should last us until she doesn't need them any more, and even a couple
more won't put us over the cost of disposables. We splurge a little on
special flushable liners so we don't have to do any poo-scraping to keep
our nappies clean which raise the price a little more, but all in all
we're ahead so I'm happy.

I'll point out that cloth nappies aren't the squares of white towel that
they used to be. These days they have the functionality and usability of
disposables without the waste. They look and behave like a regular
nappies, but come in all sorts of cute styles and patterns (including
BATMAN).

!//farm3.static.flickr.com/2499/3969039952\_744b1f4edd.jpg(Batman Nappy
(open))!:http://www.flickr.com/photos/joshnunn/3969039952/

It has a goddamn CAPE

I was a bit apprehensive about keeping them clean, but it's pretty damn
easy. We toss used ones in a bin with a "wet bag" liner, and do a load
roughly every two days. You have to hang them the "right" way or they
stretch out of shape, which sounds a little fiddly but they're really
not that hard to keep on top of. Looking over our water bills for the
last two years, we aren't using significantly more water than we were
before either. Importantly, we don't have to touch them during the
cleaning process, so it's really not much more hassle than disposable at
all.

Finally, most of the best ones are made from bamboo or hemp, and sewn by
Australian mothers so we're using products that help our economy and are
great for the environment. They really are a better alternative.

Of course people can be very sensitive about their use of disposables,
and I really don't wish to offend. I can certainly see the appeal of
disposables for time-pressed and stressed parents. But I'd encourage
you, if you are about to have kids to at least consider cloth nappies -
these aren't your mother's nappies.

If you want to know more, there is a lot of information on the 'net. The
entire Australian cloth nappy industry has flourished due to the
internet, and information is everywhere. Mil informs me that two great
places to start if you're interested are [the Australian Nappy
Network](http://www.nappynetwork.org.au/) or
[Nappycino](http://www.nappycino.com.au/). If you leave a comment I can
try to answer some of your questions and point you in the right
directions.

I've also written a review of one of the special night nappies we use
over at [Do I Keep
It](//the.geekorium.com.au/archive-post-sandman-night-nappies-review/)
if you're looking for a great night nappy.

I now return you to your regularly scheduled geekiness. Thank you for
sticking with me through my namby-pamby posts today!