{
    "date": "2018-04-02 03:04:43",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2018-04-02 03:04:43",
    "slug": "dashing-dynamic-duo",
    "title": "Dashing Dynamic Duo",
    "url": "\/dashing-dynamic-duo\/",
    "tags": [],
    "categories": [
        "Rambling"
    ]
}![Batman and Robin Comic Book
Logo](//turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2011/04/batmanandrobin-comicbook-logo-1.jpg "Batman and Robin Comic Book Logo")

...Running

I once did a post about the old-old [Batman and Robin
Serial](//the.geekorium.com.au/batman-as-youve-never-seen-him/) and took
some screen-caps from the episodes. One of them has proven quite popular
around the internet and has been used by sits like
[Cracked](http://www.cracked.com/article/18362_the-7-ballsiest-ways-anyone-ever-quit-their-job/)
((with added cheese)) for any post that needs a picture of Batman and
Robin running.

I wondered why it was so popular, till I realised just how iconic that
image is, even if I can't think of a particular example. So after some
research, here's a compilation of images of Batman and Robin running
from different media.

!{width:50%}//turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/batman-1960-movie.jpg(Batman
(1966)) Kapow!

First up is Adam West and Burt Ward running to the UN to save some
diplomats from being powdered by their greatest foes. I think they'd
gotten stuck in traffic?

I can't find any images from the original comics, but I'll keep my eye
out for them and put them up as they come. The closest I could find was
this vintage 1966 Japanese comic cover. This is the Adam West era as you
can tell by the eyebrows on the cowl ((and by having seen quite a few
'shops in my time)).

![Japanese Picture
Book](//turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/japanese-picture-book.jpg "Japanese Picture Book"):http://cryptofwrestling.tumblr.com/post/4802558478/vintage-1966-japanese-picture-book

Vintage 1966 Japanese Picture Book

Despite the lack of direct comic book proof, I submit this retro t-shirt
design, and you tell me if it doesn't trigger a memory of something in
your brain. You **know** this is a classic image. If you've come to
realise the iconic-ness of the image of the Dynamic Duo running, you can
buy [this
t-shirt](http://www.truffleshuffle.co.uk/store/mens-running-batman-robin-tshirt-from-junk-food-p-2859.html)
and wear it proudly.

![Batman and Robin Running
T-Shirt](//turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Mens_Running_Batman_and_Robin_T_Shirt_from_Junk_Food_print_500_314_380_76.jpg "Batman and Robin Running T-Shirt"):http://www.truffleshuffle.co.uk/store/mens-running-batman-robin-tshirt-from-junk-food-p-2859.html

Mil... Can I have some cash?

Or if that doesn't convince you that Batman and Robin hoofing it is one
of pop-culture's most classic images, try this piece from the 2007
Singapore Design Festival. Once glance and you immediately *get* it
don't you? Because it's *classic*.

![to\_the\_rescue\_by\_Draken413o](//turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/To_the_rescue_by_Draken413o.jpg "to_the_rescue_by_Draken413o"):http://draken413o.deviantart.com/art/To-the-rescue-121441303

Rescue Zone

Here they are running in Batman: The Animated Series.

![Batman Animated
Adventures](//turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/batman-animated.jpg "Batman Animated Adventures"):http://www.worldsfinestonline.com/WF/batman/btas/media/wallpaper/

Animated!

Followed by an awesome wallpaper by BobbyRubio on Deviantart.

![Midnight Run by
BobbyRubio](//turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/midnight_run_by_barrypresh-d2xx189.jpg "Midnight Run by BobbyRubio"):https://bobbyrubio.deviantart.com/art/Midnight-Run-177900921

Out for a Midnight Run

The next is Batman and Nightwing, but as Nightwing started out as Robin
((don't even get me started)), I figured it was an homage to the idea
and therefore valid.

![Batman
Hush](//turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/batman-hush.jpg "Batman Hush"):http://www.amazon.com/Batman-615-Hush-Part-Dead/dp/B000VZUDME

Batman Hush

Which leads nicely into this one, which is the New Batman and Robin, who
are Dick Grayson (the original Robin nee Nightwing) and Damian Wayne,
Bruce Wayne's son ((I said, don't get me started...)). So the image
comes full circle to the next generation.

![Batman and Robin
19](//turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/batman-robin-19.jpg "Batman and Robin 19"):http://1979semifinalist.wordpress.com/2010/10/21/january-2011-dc-cover-solicits-in-three-sentences-or-less/

Batman The Next Generation

And for gamers, Batman and Robin in the best Batman video game
adaptation of all time.

![Lego
Batman](//turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/download.jpg "Lego Batman"):http://io9.com/\#!5101546/for-the-batman-fan

Arkham Who?

Finally, I leave you with Batman and Robin from the end of Batman
Forever movie from 1995.

![Batman Forever Ending
Scene](//turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/Batman-Forever-Ending-Scene-www.keepvid.com2_.gif "Batman Forever Ending Scene"):https://youtu.be/jPE4CVEPMiA?t=1m24s

This movie is now only remembered as not being as bad as the next one