{
    "date": "2011-09-12 12:52:35",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2011-09-12 12:52:35",
    "slug": "explore-with-me",
    "title": "Explore with me",
    "url": "\/explore-with-me\/",
    "tags": [
        "exploring",
        "fun",
        "seeing what's there"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Life"
    ]
}[![How To Be An Explorer of the
World](https://turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/6140167250_076971f6653511211.jpg){width="500"
height="375"}](//www.flickr.com/photos/joshnunn/6140167250/ "How To Be An Explorer of the World by joshnunn, on Flickr")

It starts here.

I read an article the other day that actually made me want to cry a
little bit.

It's an old Washington Post article from 2007 about violinist Joshua
Bell, who as an experiment/stunt [played for 43 minutes in a rush-hour
train
station](http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/04/04/AR2007040401721.html)
for about 1000 people that passed through that morning. He was playing a
\$3.5 million dollar violin, and the best seats in his performance
*tonight* will set you back \$213.61, but on this day he played for free
to anyone who stopped to listen. He played *Chaconne* by Bach,
"considered one of the most difficult violin pieces to master".

The sad part is that about five people in 1000 actually bothered to stop
and listen. Roughly five people made time in their schedule to stop and
pay attention to the fact that this was a master, playing a Stradivarius
for free on the street. And I totally get it. One gent had to be at work
in five minutes, so he let himself stay and listened for three. Another
was a violinist himself and could tell that there was something special
about this particular busker. Another was a woman who worked as a
shoe-shiner - he was the only performer she didn't complain about to
management.

Actually, sadder still was the fact that every child who passed through
wanted to stop and listen. And every parent they were with hustled them
on without a glance at the violinist.

Saddest yet is that I **know** that if I had been there, I probably
would have done the same. I like to think that I would have been the guy
to at least spare a minute. Or maybe the one parent who didn't drag his
kid away from the amazing music that neither of us will hear the like of
again. I'm afraid that I would miss it completely and be the guy who
"had no memory that there had been a musician anywhere in sight".

I knew after reading this that I wanted to be different. I want to
notice things that others miss. [My sister has a little
side-blog](http://mygirlbetty.tumblr.com/) where she captures something
every day that she loves. I don't want to copy that, and I want to
capture more than just pictures, but it certainly inspiring. Then while
I thought about it, my 31st birthday came and went, and my sister
((again with the inspiring)) got me the book above. It's called *How to
be an Explorer of the World* by Keri Smith. While it wouldn't have been
my first choice of book, as it doesn't involve space battle or time
travel, it fits the bill perfectly for maybe getting me out of my own
little head. What I need is something to force me to see things I take
for granted, and perhaps over time, I won't need to be forced to do so.

So while the book is about taking notes and writing things down in the
moment, I'm going to experiment and learn and **explore** and as I go,
transcribe the things I do and learn and what-have-you onto the net, to
share what I'm learning and doing and make myself do it. I will do it
over on [Explore with
screenbeard](http://screenbeardexplores.tumblr.com/) on tumblr, and when
I'm finished fold it back in here.

My first
[*explore*](http://screenbeardexplores.tumblr.com/post/10124082932/exploration-1-right-where-you-are-sitting)
is up there now. Go to it.