{
    "date": "2010-06-17 05:30:09",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2010-06-17 05:30:09",
    "slug": "fair-well-old-chums",
    "title": "Fair-well Old Chums",
    "url": "\/fair-well-old-chums\/",
    "tags": [
        "awesome",
        "cute",
        "fun",
        "humour",
        "muppet show"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Share"
    ]
}As much as I miss the genius of [Jim
Henson](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Henson), I realised the other
day that I will miss something else just as much as Jim's Muppet
characters. I will miss the insane and brilliant pieces of comedy gold
he used to create with [Frank
Oz](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frank_Oz).

Frank Oz is nowadays probably best known for being the voice of Yoda,
but he's also a respected and talented film director. He's still
entertaining, long after Jim Henson's death and I hope he continues to
do so for a long time to come.

But what the world has lost since Jim's death is not only a talented
puppeteer and performer, but some classic comedic pairings of his
characters with those of Frank Oz. I cry a little inside when I realise
that there will be nothing new created by these two fabulous men working
together.

Let me give you some examples. First up the most obvious pair:

This is the **only** video in this collection that I'll forgive you for
not watching in full. It's a scene from my least favourite of the Muppet
movies (Muppets take Manhattan ((Ironically for this piece, directed by
Frank Oz)) ) showing the "wedding" between Miss Piggy and Kermit the
Frog, probably the most memorable Muppet pairing of all time (even if
it's not one of my favourites). Though an unlikely pair, Jim and Frank
made the pig's flamboyant declarations of love and the frog's seeming
indifference oddly engaging and has created a love affair that is still
going strong.

The next classic pair were Kermit and Fozzie Bear:

As well as some terrific running gags throughout the Muppet Show, this
odd couple were the backbone of the first two major Muppet movies - as
travelling companions in the first and as brothers ((er...)) in the
Great Muppet Caper ((the GREATEST Muppet movie.)). I think their
relationship is part of what made Muppet Treasure Island feel like
old-school Muppets.

Rowlf and Fozzie:

These guys had some great musical moments together (check out [I got
rhythm](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=32j8M5G1f8o) on YouTube for
another classic bit). Frank rarely got to show off his musical talent,
playing the fool in a lot of songs or singing shrilly in his Miss Piggy
voice. It made for some great comedy moments though.

Sam the American Eagle and Rowlf:

Sam is one of the most hilarious characters to come from the Muppets,
and can instantly make any other character funnier, just by being the
worlds most over the top straight man. Once again, it's almost like
Frank is playing up a lack of musical talent, and it's brilliant.

Moving briefly to some Sesame Street pairings, and the most obvious (and
maybe even more famous than any of the above) is the classic duo of Bert
and Ernie. With Jim playing the prankster and Frank the straight man,
there was no situation too simple to be made into a hilarious farce -
and even kids could get it.

> I'm just not emotionally secure enough to do this Ernie.

And some rarer but no less fantastic pairings came when Kermit ((yes, he
was on Sesame Street too)) ran into the Cookie Monster or Grover:

These two men made [comedic character
pairings](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double_act) to rival some of the
greatest in history: think Laurel & Hardy, Abbot and Costello, Aykroyd
and Belushi, French and Saunders, Fry and Laurie, The Mighty Boosh, or
Lano and Woodley ((Which, when you think about it was just a live-action
Bert and Ernie. Khehehehe.)). All things must come to an end I guess.
The loss of Jim Henson alone was a dreadful blow, but the loss of the
joyful playful scenes that these two men could create together make the
loss that much harder to accept.

Of course I don't mean to detract from the other brilliant pairings that
the Muppet show produced. [Statler and
Waldorf](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statler_and_Waldorf) come to mind
as another well known pair (voiced by Jim and both Jerry Nelson and
Richard Hunt). Dr. Bunsen Honeydew and Beaker are the other two that
spring to mind. Their sketches are just as fun, but I believe that Jim
and Frank had a spark of something greater in their performances.

I'll leave you with one other pair that might be less obvious, but is
one of the defining partnerships of the Muppet Show - and is firmly
entrenched in public consciousness. The pairing of Jim Henson's head and
characteristic voice, and Frank Oz's out-of-control hands for the
Swedish Chef: