{
    "date": "2011-07-13 13:02:33",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2011-07-13 13:02:33",
    "slug": "google-plus",
    "title": "Google+ (or Google Plus if you wanna be search-engine friendly)",
    "url": "\/google-plus\/",
    "tags": [
        "buzz",
        "facebook",
        "google",
        "new",
        "sharing",
        "social"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Post"
    ]
}So I'm hanging out on Google+. I mean literally of course - the second
((or third?)) new social network that Google has launched in the last
couple of years has a "hangout" feature where you can chat with lots of
friends simultaneously via video. I've never tried it, so I'm sitting
here in the hopes that someone will join in with me. No one has come
past yet, but I think that says more about Australian/American time
difference and my own social ineptness than the popularity of the
feature. I hear very good things about it.

This article isn't about that feature specifically. This is about
Google+ in general. The new social network that **totally** isn't trying
to out-social Facebook ((But is really - everybody knows, you guys)). It
seems quite a hit! But then so was Buzz initially. You remember Buzz?
The social network built knee-deep into GMail that a lot of people
tried, but no one really liked ((not really deep down)). There was also
Wave - but that never made sense to most people ((although I never knew
why - it was pretty straight forward)). I mock, but only out of love.
Google, despite their failures are not a company to give up on something
once they have it in their sights, and understandably they want to get
in on this "social" act.

[![](//imgs.xkcd.com/comics/googleplus.png "Google+ xkcd"){.alignnone
width="535" height="281"}](http://xkcd.com/918/)

What "social" means exactly is anyone's guess, but in vague terms it
means somehow putting all that information you generate when you browse
the web and share the cool stuff you find with your friends to use.
Sites like Facebook are all about giving you a central place to post
videos and photos you like so other people can see how witty and clever
you are for liking Transformers before they were ruined ((or exploded))
by Michael Bay. This sort of sharing has come a long way since the web
was made. It used to be that you had to own your own website and
manually copy/paste links and videos into your pages and hope to hell
that people might find, and occasionally re-visit, your site. Then sites
like Blogger and Wordpress came along and made that somewhat easier,
then Tumblr and Facebook - making those sorts of short and snappy link
sharing posts easier and easier to do. Now you wave your mouse in the
direction of the Facebook tab and it pulls out that it's a Youtube video
and picks out the title and description and even embeds the video, and
you barely have to do **anything**. Well now Google is heading one step
further. They aren't there right now - Google+ is still a lot like
Facebook on the surface - but deeper down the steps are there to become
something massive.

Google+ is a service where you share your links, photos and videos with
people in your "Circles". You group the people you know into named
Circles to make sharing easier and less prone to accidents of the
"sharing photos of myself drunk with Aunt Sally" variety. For example,
you create a "Work" circle, a "Family" circle and potentially a "Drunk
shenanigans" circle. Then each time you post a picture or a report, you
can easily assign it to be seen by the appropriate group. For the
record: Facebook offers a similar option, but **I've** rarely used it,
and I can't imagine my mum has ever bothered.

Then there's the Hangout feature I've mentioned above. When you're
online, you can set up your webcam for chats with whichever friends
happen to be browsing Google+ at the time.

The third major feature at launch is "Sparks" - a kind of automatic
interesting article finder. Type in a few keywords about what you're
interested in, and you get your stream filled with articles that match
those keywords. I find this feature somewhat limited at the moment. A
few of the articles it's uncovered have been interesting, but mostly
it's just more of the same sort of thing I can get at one or more of a
dozen similar services. Once it's fully integrated into everyone's
Google account though - like my mum's - I can imagine it being useful
for some people to find new and interesting articles they might
otherwise not go searching for.

Thus we get to the crux of the matter: integration. Google practically
runs the web right now, despite the valiant efforts of Microsoft and
up-and-comers like Duck Duck Go, and despite the sneak-in-from-behind
services like Twitter and Facebook. If you want an answer to something
you most likely start at Google and work your way from there. But Google
recognise it's only a matter of time before someone takes that "social"
power that other sites like Twitter and Facebook have and turn it into a
more useful information finding service. The power of social is to
hopefully take it one step further and start recommending things to you
before you even recognise you were looking for it. To help you dig out
more reliable information - reliable because a friend or relative has
already used it and shared about it ((It's also to make advertising more
profitable, but that's another story)). Google is the biggest search
engine on the planet and has been for years. On top of that, Google has
sites like Blogger (for web pages) and Picasa (for photos) and - because
you might not have actually heard of those - Youtube for video.

Google's plan with Google+ has already started. You can "Plus One" any
search result to indicate to other people in your networks that a
particular website is a good result - similar to Facebook's "Like"
button, but on your search page. Now website owners can embed these
buttons onto their sites, and you can "Plus One" after you've visited -
the results are shown to your friends in **their** Google searches.

The next step will be to turn this functionality on on Youtube and their
other properties. When you "Like" a video - soon to become "+1" no doubt
- this will be added to your list of +1s on your profile and I'm
imagining eventually integrated into your stream. As more and more
Google properties are built onto the Google Plus platform, stuff you
have found useful or beautiful or interesting will be offered to your
friends and family as reliable content that they might also find useful
or beautiful or interesting. It's all part of Google's plan to find ways
to understand what you do on the web and make themselves more useful so
you use them more ((and see and click on more ads)). It's a grand
vision. It's easy to imagine this as the start of something big, which
is why I'm so excited about it.

[![Screenshot of the Introduction presentation for Google
Plus](https://turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/The-Google-Plus-Project-e1310561957204.png "The Google Plus Project"){.alignnone
.size-full .wp-image-229477796 width="600"
height="339"}](//the.geekorium.com.au/the-google-plus-project/)

Of course at the moment, it's all seems much like the other services we
know and love. **This is not a bad thing**. The fact that you can take
your knowledge of Facebook (or Buzz etc) and move into Google+ is a huge
bonus at starting time. If Google can layer more functionality over the
top of this simple base, I imagine Google+ being a powerhouse of sharing
and a massive database of knowledge.

This is just my initial reaction/summation of Google+. The best way to
find out what it's about is to give it a go. I've got some invites if
you'd like to try it! Check out [my +Josh
posts](https://plus.google.com/101929452061447291902/posts) and put me
in one of your circles.