{
    "date": "2009-12-06 07:01:25",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2009-12-06 07:01:25",
    "slug": "google-wave-and-university",
    "title": "Google Wave and University",
    "url": "\/google-wave-and-university\/",
    "tags": [
        "chat",
        "direction",
        "use case"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Post"
    ]
}[![Café Area Saltire Centre Glasgow Caledonian
University](//farm1.static.flickr.com/45/146799101_1d3538261d.jpg){.alignnone
width="500"
height="334"}](http://www.flickr.com/photos/jiscinfonet/146799101/ "Café Area Saltire Centre Glasgow Caledonian University by jisc_infonet, on Flickr")

While attempting to complete my first group assignment as an external
student at University, I realised how much harder it was than while I
was an internal student.  If you're an internal student you see each
other at least once a week,  making it hard to ignore the fact you have
an upcoming assignment. Also you actually get to meet and talk with
people and elect  to be in their group (if the group selection process
is left to the students). Being external, I had to post a random post on
the discussion board and hope I was choosing the right people. And then
hope they didn’t ignore my emails or wait a month or so to reply.

Google Wave would have been one of the best tools for this group
assignment. Email meant a group of four people were all individually
emailing each other and also at times emailing all four of the group. I
ended up with snapshots of what was happening, who was having what role,
and what the plan was. With Google Wave, all the communication would
have been in one Wave, or even multiple, but it would have been
available for the group to read and to add and edit. The plan of the
assignment, of who was writing what, and how we were writing it could
have been kept at the top of the wave, and edited as needed. The parts
assigned to individuals could have been put in the wave and the group
could know exactly where the assignment was up to, and edit other's
parts as we went.

The two main features of Google Wave which would have positive affects
on a university group assignment, would have been the real time editing
and the ability to highlight. Real time made it more like conversation,
without having to wait for emails to be sent, or having to work out who
could possible meet in the City to catch up. Highlighting would allow
those edits to be prominent or for individuals to reinforce any point
they needed to make.