---
categories:
- Share
date: "2009-09-05 12:57:43"
draft: false
publishDate: "2009-09-05 12:57:43"
slug: laying-my-heart-music-on-the-line-for-you-people
tags:
- charleston
- classical
- dr steel
- fun
- mamas and papas
- music
- nasty tales
- pachelbel
- parov stelar
- prokofiev
- song
- sound
- unkle ho
- waldeck
title: Laying my Heart (Music) on the Line for You People
url: /laying-my-heart-music-on-the-line-for-you-people/
---
I've never known what I'd call the type of music I enjoy. Back when I
was in high school it was whatever you'd call [what that Snow guy was
doing](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Informer_%28song%29) (also see the
[Jim Carrey Spoof](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Icb_tRTnA4g)). About
the same time I enjoyed a very embarrassing singer named Gillum who
happened to be the triumvirate of terrible nineties music all in one
annoying package, a white Christian rapper. I'm including the video, but
please only watch if you have a strong constitution or no longer value
the will to live.

If you're extra brave, skip back to the beginning and watch the intro...

I have to give my friend Ben Fuller credit for at the time pointing out
that my favourite rapper wasn't actually very good. If only I'd
listened.

From there it was down hill for a few years. Until I reached my
twenties. I'm not sure my taste was much better, but I happened to
stumble on some music I loved. Still Christian stuff, but somewhat
better. For a doubting Christian, there was nothing better than Chris
Rice's [Smell the Color 9](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TqDEHBKTTRA),
and I LOVED [Questions for
Heaven](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SKqKOnq6m2k).

I have to say though, my current taste in music is very different.

Somewhere in the last little while I've developed a taste for what I'm
told is dance/electronica (well that's what hey call it in iTunes). The
problem is, that most music that pops up when I go looking under that
category is repetitive synthy stuff that does nothing for me. The common
link with a lot of the stuff I seek out is that old-timey sound from the
1920's that's associated with the
[Charleston](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charleston_%28dance%29). It's
full of muted trumpets and energetic beats. But really, anything
energetic and slightly old timey really gets me.

Listen to [bei mir bist du
sch&ouml;n](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rAi2CbVQIqw) by Waldeck,
[Back and Forth](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WVvlVHdLCx0) by Doctor
Steel, and [Come on a My
House](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X_olskLOiaE) by Nasty Tales and
his Orchestra to get a feel for my absolute favourite sort of music.

That's not to say I haven't got wider taste than a subset of
electronica. My iPhone Genius pulls up equal measures of Lisa Mitchell,
Bertie Blackman, Gotye, Regina Spektor, Emiliana Torrini... I think I
may have a thing for soft sounding women (sorry to lump you in there
[Wouter](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gotye!)). I even (shamefully)
purchased the Voodoo Child song with that woman from Neighbours 'cause
it sounded fun at the time.

I'm a fan of the themes of my favourite TV shows (yes I listen to them
as music, but if it includes the terrific new [Doctor
Who](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2CYDgezeQas) theme by Murray Gold
you can understand right?). But I think this stems from my upbringing on
classical music that somehow got pushed to the side by awful whiteboy
rap. It's cliched but I love Pachelbel's Canon in D ((I dare you to find
one on Youtube that isn't played on a guitar by a boy in his bedroom.
Actually [this one is pretty
good](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DZHw9uyj81g.))), and the [Dance of
the Knights](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DUmq1cpcglQ) from Romeo and
Juliet by Prokofiev.

My mother shared the [Mamas and
Papas](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V0UcQDUR-fU) with us, and I picked
up a love of [silly](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ynjIoymWHvU)
[songs](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XaWU1CmrJNc) somewhere along the
way too.

All in all I think my musical taste is pretty varied. I think like most
people it incorporates a lot of stuff that made me feel good when I
needed it at one time or another, or has memories attached. If you hunt
through my site or my [Twitter](http://twitter.com/joshnunn) and
[Blip](http://blip.fm/joshnunn) accounts you'll find a bunch of other
stuff I really enjoy too.

I'll leave you with a new song that I'm enjoying a bit at the moment.
It's not my absolute favourite, but it's pretty high up there, and very
fun. It's by an Aussie artist called Unkle Ho. It's called Big Bad Rag,
and has more of that trumpety old timey goodness I was talking about.

And it's listed as Hip-Hop in iTunes, so I don't know, although it
reminds me of [something I
tweeted](http://twitter.com/joshnunn/status/1102868424)

> I like... What's hip-hop called when people don't ruin it by talking
> over the top of the music?

Sorry Hip-Hop fans.

This post was inspired by discussion with Elle leading up to her posting
"[You are a radio
star.](http://taciturnly.com/2009/09/you-are-a-radio-star/).