{
    "date": "2009-08-28 02:38:44",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2009-08-28 02:38:44",
    "slug": "lijit-search-impeccable-customer-service",
    "title": "Lijit Search: Impeccable customer service",
    "url": "\/lijit-search-impeccable-customer-service\/",
    "tags": [
        "search",
        "Social Networking",
        "technology",
        "tools",
        "widget"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Tech"
    ]
}![lijit
stickers](//farm3.static.flickr.com/2130/2478273711_01b84d75a8.jpg "lijit stickers")://www.flickr.com/photos/stickergiant/2478273711/

Photo by [teamstickergiant](http://www.flickr.com/photos/stickergiant/)

**I try a lot** of new widgets and technologies on my blog, to see what
they offer and make my website more exciting ((I could probably just
post more often, but it's easier to install a widget![]())). While I can
usually appreciate what they are trying to do, I more often than not
find that the increased page-load times or disparity with my blog's look
usually compel me to uninstall the thing before too long. And I'm
certainly not too attached to a thing to hesitate to uninstall it if
it's messing something up, or has some sort of bug.

**This post** is about one such widget that's tenaciously holding on,
and the reasons I'm still using it.

**The Lijit search widget** is a little doohicky you can install (with
code or plugin) on to a lot of popular blogging sites with minimal fuss.
Like a lot of widgets, Lijit offers multiple configurations and designs
and serves a single purpose. In this case, Lijit offers a sort of
enhanced, social search. Using Google as a back-bone, Lijit takes over
whatever boring backend search you might have and offers more relevant
results (using Google's magic sauce) with some extra special stuff
thrown in. The "special stuff" is relevant links and results from any
other satellite site you might like to add. **For example:** I post to
[Twitter](http://twitter.com/joshnunn) a lot, save links on
[Delicious](http://delicious.com/joshnunn), re-share stuff from [Google
Reader](http://www.google.com/reader/shared/16049416693875578456) and
post photos to [Flickr](http://flickr.com/photos/joshnunn), amongst
others. Lijit asks for all the details of the services you use and then
includes results from those services as well!

**But that's not all!** It also figured out who's on my blogroll in the
side bar there, and includes the people in my network on Delicious ((and
MyBlogLog, but who uses THAT any more)), and can include stuff it finds
from them that also might have anything to do with the search. So not
only do my visitors get increasingly relevant and useful info (as there
certainly isn't any here), but my friends and associates also get some
extra loving! It makes the search so much more productive than looking
for keyword matches in a single site's database.

**Enough** about the search though! This post was inspired more by the
*awesome service* I have received from the Lijit people, not once, but
twice now. While the search is good, I'm a fickle, fickle man and am
prone to change things around here without much thought. I somehow (I
can't remember if by choice or mistake) disabled the Lijit search on my
site and would probably have never put it back. Except that Jacqueline
from Lijit contacted me soon after and very politely enquired if there
was a reason I had disabled the product.

**Normally** that might trigger my stalking alarm, but I pushed my
misgivings aside and came over here to turn it back on. When I did I
noticed it was misbehaving a bit and told Jacqueline as much. She had
someone in their support department look at it straight away and I had
an answer in a matter of hours. I've been happy with it ever since. It
provides detailed analytics of my user's searches so I can better target
what they're looking for too.

**Until yesterday**, when out of the blue the plugin started adding
extra buttons to the top of my site. I immediately bitched about it on
Twitter, then wrote an email to Jacqueline again asking her to look into
it (it's OK, she nicely said I could at any time!). By the time I woke
up today, Jaqueline had written back to say she would look into it, and
another lovely person called Tara had emailed me to say she saw my
complaint on Twitter and already had someone investigating. By the time
I had even checked my email it had been fixed.

**To me, that is exemplary.** I could have used their official support
channels (although surprisingly couldn't find them -- they might want to
look into that), but instead in both cases took the lazy option to
uninstall/bitch about it. In both cases Lijit cared enough about my
experience that they're actively monitoring for mentions of their
product, and more importantly acting on them quickly to fix the
problems.

**So yay to the Lijit support team.** I hope your product lives a long a
happy life. Keep up the good work, and thank you for a fantastic
service! And anyone who's now interested in trying Lijit out, search for
something in the search bar up there. And when you sign up to Lijit,
[add me to your Lijit network](http://www.lijit.com/users/joshnunn/).