{
    "date": "2011-10-10 10:35:06",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2011-10-10 10:35:06",
    "slug": "mac-osxwin7",
    "title": "mac osx\/win7",
    "url": "\/mac-osxwin7\/",
    "tags": [],
    "categories": [
        "Rambling"
    ]
}I became an "Apple fanboy" while doing a film making course. The course
used Macs for editing, and at the time (about 8 years ago now) they were
really the most reliable editing platform. Unless you had a high end PC,
your home computer would not run video smoothly enough to edit without
choppyness and dropped frames. Every Mac had firewire too, making the
capture smoother on that platform. When I got my own editing rig, it was
a Mac.

I kinda lost sight of how I came to be an Apple user, and started
believing it was the better OS, or the innovation that set them apart
from their competition. I still believe OSX is miles ahead of anything
Microsoft is currently selling, but recently come to realise what it was
that REALLY made me proud to be a Mac user. For the last ten years
they've kept moving.

I'm not having a go at Microsoft here, although to some degree they
deserve it. I could never understand why some people perpetually bashed
Apple, and stuck by Microsoft despite no new desktop products (worth
mentioning) for at least 7 years. They had as many rabid fans as Apple,
but for no good reason I could tell. More importantly, I couldn't put my
finger on why it irked me. Certainly I had come to realise that you
could do the same work on both machines, and with a lot of new "internet
based software" could almost run completely on Firefox (or Opera) on any
platform and not notice the difference. Why did it bug me that people
were so fanatically devoted to Microsoft when they had such boring
desktop products.

A few weeks ago, Microsoft announced and proudly showed off their
successor to Vista: Windows 7. Despite the lacklustre name, the product
looks solid, and even has some new features that most people would not
have seen in a Desktop Operating System before. I might even go so far
as to say that I'm truly excited for it. Far more so than I was for the
release of Vista.

It was at that point that I struck upon why it baffled me that people
were so dedicated to XP. Why it bamboozled me that people felt the need
to make excuses for Vista. I can't understand why people are so stuck on
old technology. Why they can't see the inherent awesomeness of new
technology. These people aren't real technologists.

There. I said it.

With technology changing so fast, you can't afford to be wedded to old
technology if you want to keep up. I'm sure I'll be accused of chasing
shiny things, but I think it's more than that. I'm not one to switch to
the latest and greatest just because it's new, unless it actually is the
greatest. The balance here becomes evaluating the new technology and
making a rational decision based on actual experience. A person who
claims to love technology, but can't see beyond the interface to see the
inherent value in a new technology shouldn't be saying anything.

Of course I'm not saying that you should give every new technology a
free pass. This isn't about loving something new becuase it's new, but
rather evaluating it based on it's potential.