{
    "date": "2006-03-06 22:00:19",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2006-03-06 22:00:19",
    "slug": "my-faith-and-my-religion",
    "title": "My Faith and My Religion",
    "url": "\/my-faith-and-my-religion\/",
    "tags": [
        "c.s. lewis",
        "faith",
        "god",
        "proof"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Religion"
    ]
}I have lot of concerned and loving people in my life who have come to my
site hoping to get an insight into my life and how I am handling the
pressures of an ill wife, and the gradual erosion of my faith. It is an
easier thing to be able to say "check out my website", than to speak
about things face to face, partly because when I do I find it difficult
to explain what I mean when I say that I need proof of God's existence.

It's also easier to respond to the gist of a series of comments in one
post than to answer each one, because the irrational part of my brain
wants to argue with everyone, and say I am right and you are wrong and
start something akin to a Christian/atheist debate, where neither gives
ground and each argument makes the other side more convinced they are
right.

Instead, I wanted to clarify a bit what I've said in earlier posts about
my faith, and why I feel I need proof of God's existence.

One of the things I should say straight up is that I actually need two
things.

1.  Proof God exists;

2.  Proof that He cares.

I could rewrite that second one to be: Why does "God's Existence" make
any difference?

If I could be given proof beyond a doubt that God is a real being, it
would change me. I always felt that the existence of God should have an
amazing effect on my life. I thought it was my fault that it rarely did.
But the presence of an all powerful being (if proven) **should** cause
undeniable change (either terrified fear, or uncontrollable joy). If you
agree follow along.

That is what the effect should be with incontrovertible proof. The
effects of such proof are all around. Many people have been given such
proof (real or imagined) and have devoted their lives to God. However
the rest of the world does not receive such proof and falls somewhere
else - in a place where they either deny the existence of God, or
begrudgingly admit that He could very well exist, and so perhaps they
should do something about it. If you haven't established, I fell into
the latter group. I felt that God could be there, but without the first
kind of absolute proof, had to make do with my own faith - which is weak
at the best of times.

I'll pause for a moment and say this: some can take our very existence
as absolute proof, because it is inconceivable to them that something
came from nothing. I can **almost** share that faith. The problem is
that in this age, there are explanations of how something can come from
nothing. This doesn't **prove** the opposite of course, but simply makes
**not** believing a possibility.

So without absolute proof, what does one need to keep faith alive? I
would argue that one needs to feel that God cares. If nature or anything
else can only get me to the point that I concede the **possibility**
that God exists, I need something else as well. That is why I want to
know that God cares. If God cares, then His existence matters to me. In
the absence of absolute proof, a caring God is one that I will believe
in despite any evidence or argument to the contrary.

I'm not speaking clearly here I realise, and I'll attempt to clarify. In
a murder trial, you must have proof that A) a crime was committed, B)
that the person on trial did it. You do this with evidence. Without a
picture of the suspect holding a severed head, the evidence must take on
a more subjective nature. You show the knife, you show the scene of the
crime, and you establish that the suspect had motive. Then the jury
takes that evidence and says "Yes, in all likelihood the suspect is
guilty" or "No, we're not convinced that that is sufficient evidence to
prove anything". At the moment, I feel like the deliberating jury. I
have Exhibit A: 'the universe in its mind boggling complexity', and
Exhibit B: 'a lot of people who claim to have seen the accused'. But I
don't know the character of **all** the witnesses - only a couple of
them. And the prosecution have witnesses who claim to have seen other
gods, or not seen any god at all. As a juror, I need to know what God's
motivation is. Only then can I say "Yes, even without absolute proof, I
know He exists - because the arguments stack up. All the little
evidences point to one big conclusion".

I have had a number of conversations with friends who have tried to
convince me that the evidence of God's motivation can be found in the
bible. The issue with this is the bible's credibility as evidence. The
bible was written over thousands of years by multiple people, but some
evidence contradicts the claims made by the authors, and other evidence
contradicts what has been said about the authors. For example, it's
generally taken by most scientists that the earth (more or less as we
know it) was something that took many many years to happen. It has been
said that this doesn't preclude the existence of a God, but it does
bring the first couple of chapters of Genesis into question. And if
Genesis is read as a metaphor, I then struggle with the exact point
where the bible begins actually telling history as it is. Where this
leaves me is with the bible 'beginning' at best somewhere about the
middle of the prophets, and at worst perhaps the beginning of the new
testament.

With even a small cloud of doubt about the validity of the bible as
unquestionable truth, I begin to wonder what else isn't true, and what
other stories may be embellished.

See the issue is, I always believed that the bible was too fantastic to
be anything else but true. I mean - God takes human form and walks among
us! - it is amazing. Surely something like that is too good to be true -
you couldn't make that up!

But maybe you can. If everyone in the world who wasn't a Christian
believed the same thing, that God was fictional - strangely enough I'd
find it easier to believe. With the small evidence I have I could say
'the rest I take on faith' because why would someone make up Jesus? But
I see evidence that all over the world, people have created their own
religious figures to fill whatever niche there is in their culture.
Muslims believe their religion supplanted Christianity, just as
Christians believe theirs supplanted Judaism. There is the possibility
that one is right and one is wrong, but isn't that awfully presumptuous?

> A man who was merely a man and said the sort of things Jesus said
> would not be a great moral teacher. He would either be a lunatic - on
> the level with the man who says he is a poached egg - or else he would
> be the Devil of Hell.C.S. Lewis 'Mere Christianity' page 56

Forgive me Mr. Lewis for using your words in this way. The issue I see
is that Muslims feel the same way about Mohammed. He may never have
claimed to be God, but he and his followers have made some fairly bold
claims that come close, or else refute the claims that Jesus made. If
Christians can shrug these off with a wave of their hands, and Muslims
can shrug off Christian beliefs, how do we decide who is right? Both
religions are effectively saying that they have the only truth, **both
can't be right**.

Then there are religions who don't have a God or head figure. Native
Australians don't follow Jesus or worship God. Are they wrong?

If you accept that the life of Jesus unfolded as written in the bible,
you must accept that some pretty amazing belief systems have arisen out
of lies or delusions that seemed perfectly reasonable to millions of
people just like you. Why are you so certain you are right?

I realise that you may have a perfectly good reason - your faith - and
again I return to my original point. I have little faith. I need
evidence to build on. I have said in earlier posts that I believe Faith
is for keeping belief alive when all these sorts of questions come up.
Not having much to start with, none of the 'proofs' I can get from other
people will satisfy me. Until I see God, or see any evidence that he
cares about my life my faith will be small.

Forgive the rambling nature of this post. I have not the mental acumen
to craft an argument or hold an idea in my head for so long. I will
attempt to clarify in future posts based on your feedback.