{
    "date": "2008-04-08 14:31:54",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2008-04-08 14:31:54",
    "slug": "naked-day",
    "title": "naked day - april 9th",
    "url": "\/naked-day\/",
    "tags": [
        "css",
        "dustin diaz",
        "naked day",
        "usability"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Tech"
    ]
}> It's time to show off your &lt;body&gt;. [Annual CSS Naked
> Day](http://naked.dustindiaz.com "Web Standards Naked Day Host Website")

What a laff! I've participated in it in previous years, and [Naked
Day](http://naked.dustindiaz.com "Web Standards Naked Day Host Website")
is always fun. Lots of people around the web make their websites "naked"
by stripping out the codes that make them pretty, so we're left with
just a bunch of black text on a white page.

####

Why would you do this?

To show people that a good website shouldn't just look pretty, but
should have good structure as well. Websites have to be usable by blind
people, colour-blind people, and people who have trouble using a mouse
or keyboard. Some of these people can't use Internet Explorer (lucky
them) or even *gasp* Firefox to view their favourite sites. They have to
use software that strips away all the pretty colours and flashy
graphics, to leave just the meat of the site - the information.

A few years ago the web was a hodgepodge of sites that were unreadable
this way because designers didn't know better, and were most interested
in how wonderful their sites looked. So people started to suggest some
changes that would make sites behave more appropriately for people who
used these amazing programs. Nowadays a good website is made by first
creating the page raw, with nothing but plain old text information. Then
the designer whips up a fancy design to wrap around it all. It just
makes good sense. Everyone wins - people who just want to read their
favourite sites, but have some difficulty using regular old web
browsers, can still see their sites, and designers can still make their
site as fancy pants as they want, and regular Joe is none the wiser.

Except Naked Day is about making Joe wiser. He should know that time and
effort goes into making sites usable for everybody. He needs to know so
that he can make sure that the next website he designs (in Frontpage
probably) or commissions needs to be usable as well as pretty.

So I'm sorry if my (site's) nakedness offends you, and I hope you can
understand. This isn't about you, this is about me being free... and
about making the web a friendly place for everyone.