{
    "date": "2008-12-14 13:15:18",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2008-12-14 13:15:18",
    "slug": "oh-27-you-know-just-what-i-like",
    "title": "Oh 2.7, you know just what I like...",
    "url": "\/oh-27-you-know-just-what-i-like\/",
    "tags": [
        "FriendFeed",
        "iPhone",
        "Plug-in",
        "wordpress"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Tech"
    ]
}![The Visual design of Wordpress
2.7](//turbo.geekorium.com.au/images/newpost.png "The Visual design of Wordpress 2.7")

Good Design in Wordpress 2.7

The latest [Wordpress update, 2.7(Announcement of the Coltrane Wordpress
Update)](http://wordpress.org/development/2008/12/coltrane/), manages to
get WIN all over my keyboard. It fair shoots out of the screen and all
over the place with its sexy sexy curves and simple lines. I want to
give it a hug.

The 2.6 update was pretty good. It was good enough that 2.5 is all but
erased completely from my mind. 2.7 however, looks gorgeous, plays nice
with all my extensions and adds a couple of neat features that make me
want to go home with it, and I barely even know it.

Awesome Feature Number 1 is automatic site software upgrades. Untested
as I write this, the idea of its existence is enough to make me "ghee"
with joy. Found under `Tools > Upgrade` on the new left-hand menu, it
offers simple upgrades to the latest software that bypasses the old
"upload each new file/directory" that some have been subjected to, and
even cuts out the middle man web-hosts who have been offering something
similar for a while ((byebye fantastico)).

Awesome Feature Number 2 is plugin searching and installation RIGHT FROM
THE FRIGGIN ADMIN PAGE! This makes plugins so easy to install that it
practically guarantees broken Wordpress installations across the world
as people just install new plugins 'cause they can! No more tossing up
if it's worth it to upload and install something new. Why waste a second
thinking about it when you can just press `install` and see? In minutes
of upgrading my site tonight I had a working iPhone version of my site,
and (hopefully) some integration with my FriendFeed account. That is the
"killer feature" of Wordpress right there my friends, found under
`Plugins > Add New`. It makes me so happy I could cry ((it could just be
that I'm tired. I get weepy when I'm sleepy)).

So go and update it today. It'll be the last painful upgrade you do.