---
categories:
- Education
date: "2007-05-15 12:00:53 +0930"
draft: false
publishdate: "2007-05-15 12:00:53 +0930"
slug: our-job
tags:
- blogging
- internet
- technology
- Thoughts
title: Our job.
url: /our-job/
---
They do **what** on the Internet?

I recently spoke to a staff member at one of my schools who in all
respects is a lovely person, but who shocked me thoroughly when we
started talking about 'the Internet'. The topic somehow came to MySpace
in particular, and in general the idea of putting personal stuff out
there for all to see. Now this person has a child, and their opinion was
that they would never let their child do anything online that might
expose them to the dangers of the Internet. This sounds good and proper
- but my shock was at what their idea of Internet danger extends to.

> Do you believe that some people use the **Internet** for *banking*!?

they exclaimed.\
As I was about to explain that actually the 'net is getting very good at
keeping everything you put out there safe I was forced to cut the
conversation short to reset yet another password.

Now this person isn't so old you can forgive their scepticism - and even
that's not fair when you consider that my Grandma has been banking
online for at least a couple of years now. More confusingly this person
is fresh out of university - so they MUST be using the 'net at least
occasionally.

Before we ended the conversation I tried to impress upon them that with
a very young child about to grow up in an increasingly net-connected
world, they have a chance (nay, a duty) to learn everything they can
about this newfangled technology to better educate their children in its
proper use. I'm not sure if I got through.

They grow up so fast

Since then, I've thought a lot more about our jobs as educators and
technologists (and parents) to make this technology safer for our kids
(and by 'our', I mean the ones we work with as well as the ones we
own[^1^](#1sup){#1tag}). I've kinda been interested in this area since
starting to work with [Al Upton](http://alupton.edublogs.org) who put me
on to a couple of educators who think about this stuff. Until I talked
to this staff member though, I never really seriously considered how
important it all is.

Our kids are using mobile phones earlier, blogging younger, playing
video games before they can walk, and MSNing before they can speak, but
instead of teaching them, we're banning them in classrooms and homes and
hoping that they'll get over it instead[^2^](#2sup){#2tag}. We block out
everything new that we see (iPods, websites, phones) and never really
re-evaluate it. It makes sense to hold back a little, to evaluate how
safe these things are - but too often they are pronounced 'too difficult
to make safe' and banned outright.

The ban-everything problem

The problem with the ban-everything-new approach is this: new toys, new
ideas, new things cry out to be used and played with - every child who
was dragged to church Christmas morning knows this. Every geek with a
new computer/browser/new-mouse-button knows this. Everyone who's bought
a new mower or car knows that regardless of whether you *need* to or
not, your new things call out to be used in some way. And if you cannot
use them in the ways they were intended you find other ways to use them
instead.

You get bored of your old software on your new computer - so you buy a
computer game to make the most of it. You don't need to drive anywhere
fast, so you do burnouts up and down the block. You don't need the new
phone with the camera, and you can't find anything constructive to do
with it, so you take photos of your friends humiliating themselves
instead, and then you post them to your 'till-now-unused MySpace page.
Why do we ban myspace? Because kids can do hurtful damaging things with
it. Why do they do hurtful damaging things with it? Because they haven't
been given an obviously positive thing to do with it, and their friends
are doing it, and they want to be a part of it, and it's in our nature
to default to the easiest and laziest things. Our kids want desperately
to use this technology. They have access in their own homes and at their
friends homes. They sometimes just don't see how to go beyond the
simplest and most juvenile uses for it.

But kids can be taught. That's why we have schools isn't it? Because
they're still learning and open to guidance (mostly)... Why do we find
it difficult to encourage them to use tools productively instead of
destructively? These tools are there, the kids **will** use them. We
**must** keep up.

In the Air

I'll leave my rant with a link to a story of a family that I think is
amazing. [Matthew is a very intelligent boy with a
blog](http://matthewmatt.wordpress.com/). He's nine years old, and his
goal is to interview 100 ordinary people. [From his
mum](http://freakparade.wordpress.com/more-about-the-boy/):

> Despite having an above average IQ, everyday learning is difficult to
> The Boy. Out of all his challenges, I view the output and sequencing
> problems as the biggest obstacle. What would it be like to have so
> much knowledge, but not be able to organize it and express it clearly?
> Or to read well above grade level, but be unable to retain anything
> you just read?\
> ...\
> The Boy has huge difficulties ... with the most frustrating being the
> reading...not able to retain information from what he has read. Most
> times it feels like trying to put out a wildfire with thimbles full of
> water....you keep dumping and dumping, but it has no effect.

I've read this kid's writing and I'm impressed that he continues to post
even with such difficulty. But what impresses me most is that his mother
has encouraged him to use the 'net as a way to express himself. Unlike
my staff member friend from earlier, this mum joins her kid at the
computer and helps him understand what he's doing from a more mature
standpoint. [She does her share of
vetting](http://matthewmatt.wordpress.com/2007/05/01/my-interview-with-steve-from-the-sneeze/),
but not so Matt is left out in the dark, but guides and encourages her
child to explore his world using the tools available.

Isn't that **our** job as adults?

1\. We don't actually own children. [?](#1tag){#1sup}\
2. Kids don't need to get over it. This [very concerned
adult](http://ask.metafilter.com/40483/How-can-I-help-my-young-friend)
thought that their younger relative needed to get over their computer
games, and was put in their place by a [13 year old
boy](http://ask.metafilter.com/40483/How-can-I-help-my-young-friend#623656).[?](#2tag){#2sup}