{
    "date": "2010-04-03 12:18:43",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2010-04-03 12:18:43",
    "slug": "our-small-world-is-getting-smaller-still",
    "title": "Our Small World is Getting Smaller Still",
    "url": "\/our-small-world-is-getting-smaller-still\/",
    "tags": [
        "bots",
        "chat",
        "language",
        "use case",
        "users"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Post"
    ]
}I had my first taste of international communication today thanks to
Google Wave. David Alviz runs an excellent Spanish Google Wave site
called [WAVEsfera](http://www.wavesfera.com/). He keeps up with the
latest bots and gadgets, and writes very well. A while ago it might have
been a small problem that his site is entirely in Spanish. Translation
has been around for a while on the web now, but it involved taking note
of the site and plugging it into Babelfish or something similar. Now I
have translation built right into Chrome. when I visit WAVEsfera, it
asks if I want it automatically translated. Similarly, I've subscribed
to the site in Google Reader, and it translates the site for me too! So
far so good, no reason not to subscribe to international sites any more!

[![Blue
Marble](//farm3.static.flickr.com/2084/2222523486_5e1894e314.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/wwworks/2222523486/)

Then I got to thinking. I'm getting in touch with some of the people who
have read First Waves, and realised that it's the perfect chance to try
Aunt-Rosie, one of the original bots released with Wave. So I fired up a
wave and added WAVEsfera and the translation bot. I selected the
destination language and started typing.

It was true magic.

My amazement at watching my words translated as I type is like that of a
caveman witnessing fire. the experience is so novel and potentially life
changing. Imagine a world where language is no longer a barrier for
communicating with **anyone**. Think of the potential for learning!

I'm full of excitement for the world of tomorrow enabled by *real-time*
communication and translation. We're so close to realising the universal
translator of [Star
Trek](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_translator#Star_Trek) that
I can almost taste it.

In a site note: Inspired by my discoveries, I've enabled instant
translation to each of my posts. I know I've had visitors from Germany,
Ireland, the USA, France, Spain, the Czech Republic and Turkey just
today! If you want to read First Waves in your language, check out the
"\[Translate\]" button beneath each post. If you're an international
reader, I'd love to hear from you! Please leave a comment, or wave me at
nunn.joshua@googlewave.com and don't forget to add
aunt-rosie@appspot.com!

Edited image from <span cc="http://creativecommons.org/ns#"
about="http://www.flickr.com/photos/wwworks/2222523486/"><http://www.flickr.com/photos/wwworks/>
/ [CC BY 2.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/)</span>