{
    "date": "2018-04-06 14:33:43",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2018-04-06 14:33:43",
    "slug": "pong",
    "title": "Pong",
    "url": "\/pong\/",
    "tags": [],
    "categories": [
        "Opinions"
    ]
}I find myself in the fun position of following up on a [follow-up
post](https://rubenerd.com/replacing-social-networks-with-rss/) to [my
follow-up](//the.geekorium.com.au/software-death/) on [Rubenerds
original post](https://rubenerd.com/goodbye-digg-reader/).

I mean, if we both used Facebook, this would just be a series of
comments, but where's the fun in that? As Rubenerd says, "it reminded me
of the blogosphere of old", and I'm enjoying the feeling of a proper
back and forth. And unlike a Facebook comment, his post can be read
completely independently, with his thoughts and musings taking their own
tangents without the feeling that it all needs to tie back into my post
like we're arguing about something. It's like a layer cake, or a [meat
trifle](https://youtu.be/G08pqAaJi5k?t=8s) or something.

But as he said, the blogs ((why did we never find a nicer sounding
word?)) of old are fading out. Most people just don't bother, unless
they're part of some large conglomeration. Maybe this is just the
evolution of the web, as the weaker writers give up from lack of
traffic, and the stronger ones either get grabbed by companies who can
pay them, or just keep on solidly pushing through publishing post after
post of eclectic material, not for the world but for themselves.
Rubenerd is definitely of the latter, while I am one of those weaker
ones who got tired of feeling like I was talking to myself. Or I was bad
at it.

So while I'm giving it another shot, I can't imagine how long I'll last
this time. Which brings me back round to RSS. I settled on
[FreshRSS](https://freshrss.org/) because it was PHP based and my host
had an install script. Not much of a reason to base my decision on,
except that [I've tried TT-RSS
before](//the.geekorium.com.au/make-tiny-tiny-rss-look-and-behave-like-google-reader/)
and while I was happy enough with the software, the support left me
feeling a bit *eh* about the whole thing ((see my final note on that
page for an explanation)). So Rubenerd, if you're listening, I'd be
happy to set up an account on my instance of FreshRSS if you want to try
it out.

Of course, this is all academic if I never use the thing, and I'm not
sure I'm going to. As I said in my previous post, **reddit** scratches
that itch I have to find new content. But even that is a bit
filter-bubbly despite an amazing breadth of sources on
[/r/all](//reddit.com/r/all). What I need is an ever changing list of
semi-random content to peruse on my mobile. I wonder if there are any
federated RSS aggregators?

And don't get me started on federated replacements for Facebook
Messenger. I have one colleague at work who I keep roping in to try new
messaging platforms, and I think he hates me now. In fact I know Mike
hates me because he just cycles through each app to message me how much
he hates me. I can't blame him - my phone creaks under the weight of the
following in no particular order:

-   Pulse (SMS)
-   Yammer (for work team chat until Microsoft Teams is available to us)
-   Discord (what I tried when I was trying to find something
    like Slack)
-   Telegram (my preferred replacement for FM (Facebook Messenger) with
    my family)
-   Wickr Me (I know exactly one person that uses it)
-   Wire (I can't make anyone use it, not even Mike)
-   Google Hangouts (I can't bring myself to use it)
-   Duo (pre-installed on Huey, my phone)
-   And three different email apps

Most recently I've also installed [Keybase](//keybase.io), which is so
loaded with the ~~buzzword~~ promise of blockchain I couldn't not try it
out. Rubenerd wasn't there - which as the only person I know who's
actually published a PGP key - surprised me a little. Keybase is chock
full of people who have published PGP keys. If you want to hit me up
there, my [Keybase profile is here](https://keybase.io/screenbeard).
Maybe someone smarter than me can tell me why it isn't a sound
technology, but although it's based on technology by one company, you
can't get much more federated than blockchain, even if it's not exactly
what we mean when use the term.

One last thing Rubenerd before I go. If not comments, at least enable
pingbacks and ping other people when you link them. Otherwise I might
not notice you've published until I go to my feed reader.