---
categories:
- Opinions
date: "2008-04-18 08:34:20"
draft: false
publishDate: "2008-04-18 08:34:20"
slug: pro-monarchy
tags:
- actor
- debate
- dr who
- idea
- monarchy
- republic
title: Why Australia should remain part of the Commonwealth of Nations
url: /pro-monarchy/
---
I'm a republican at heart, but some things just shouldn't be tampered
with. This morning when thinking about the issue of whether Australia
should be looking to rule itself, and cut ties with the British
monarchy, only one thing played on my mind as a possibly unintentional
consequence of such a move.

[![The Crown jewels at The Tower of
London](//farm3.static.flickr.com/2221/1567934619_76ebeb4253_o.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/44209518@N00/1567934619/ "The Crown jewels at The Tower of London")

[photo](http://www.photodropper.com/photos/) credit: [Edgley
Cesar](http://www.flickr.com/photos/44209518@N00/1567934619/ "Edgley Cesar")

This issue should not be taken lightly. Whilst it is a slim possibility,
even a remote chance should be enough to halt all talks of such a change
until this issue can be sorted out.

Would the Brits still send us new episodes of Dr. Who?

Now, don't scoff. This is serious. Our link to their scheduling is
already tenuous. We get their special one-off Christmas episode usually
scheduled at the start of our season - which in itself comes months
after theirs has aired. We are supposed to be one of the Commonwealth
Sovereign States - we share a monarch and a Secretary General - yet we
do not share a common Dr. Who schedule. I'm not sure I'm willing to risk
what little right we have to future episodes over the trivial issue of
our Head of State.

Picture a future without Dr. Who... Australia might be forced to create
our own version of the show. What an abomination that would be! Whilst
we have some fine actors and producers in this country, between them we
haven't had a decent local show in years. Let alone one with Daleks and
Cybermen.

Although, that being said, I'd like to see an episode using some of our
own cast. [Ernie Dingo](http://imdb.com/name/nm0227669/) would be
fantastic in the roll of the Doctor. It'd certainly break the Doctor out
of that upper-middle class white guy thing he has going. Throw in [Noni
Hazlehurst](http://imdb.com/name/nm0372023/) as a companion (or [Lisa
McCune](http://imdb.com/name/nm0567269/) perhaps). [John
Howard](http://imdb.com/name/nm0397398/) as the bad guy for a season
arc. It could actually be quite good. In a Comic Relief sort of way.

Even if we had to re-dub the characters with Aussie accents, it just
wouldn't be the same without the old British Dr. Who. So just think on
that before you start pushing Mr. Rudd for a Republic - I couldn't live
without it.