{
    "date": "2008-10-05 10:05:11",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2008-10-05 10:05:11",
    "slug": "reliance",
    "title": "Reliance",
    "url": "\/reliance\/",
    "tags": [
        "Education",
        "School",
        "technology"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Education"
    ]
}[![Learning
time](//turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/3948369923_f1d620f00b_o1.png){width="599"
height="401"}](http://www.flickr.com/photos/34053291@N05/3948369923/ "Learning time by Temari 09, on Flickr")

[Image cc Temari
09](http://www.flickr.com/photos/34053291@N05/3948369923/%3C/figcaption%3E%3C/figure%3E)

It seems to me that we (society/schools/the world) tend to rely on
technology in two ways. The first is to rely on it to actually work - we
expect our computers, email and Intranet page to be working first thing
in the morning until 10 o'clock at night (or later). We expect it to
work without glitch or bug or problem. Of course by 'expect' I really
mean 'cross our fingers and hope'. The way we work belies our hope - we
back up, use save often and pray that nothing breaks when we try
something new. Some of the more tech-savvy of us (or the more
adventurous) quickly rely on technology more than we should. But when
our USB device fails or our email service is down, **we** admit fault
for expecting rather than hoping.

Then there is the other way we rely on technology. It began when we (and
again I mean 'we' as a collective) first sat our kids in front of the
television and went off to do our own thing. It has continued until
today, but now includes DVD's, video games, "the computer" and now the
Internet. The reliance we have developed is more than just 'expecting it
to work'. We now expect it to fill a role it was never meant to fill,
namely: taking over our children's education and keeping them occupied.
Technology-as-babysitter is giving technology far, far more credit than
it deserves for being reliable. When our technology lets us down in so
many other areas why do we continue to trust it with the minds of our
children?

Not long ago I arrived at school to reports that 'the Internet' wasn't
working properly - people couldn't access their email. "Nothing new
there", I thought as I logged in to check the problem myself. What I
noticed wasn't a problem with email, but a problem with the proxy - the
device that sits between every school in the state and the big wide
world of the Internet. It was letting everyone through without
identification, and wasn't filtering their results as it should have
been doing. Just to test this, I surfed to
[MySpace](http://www.myspace.com/ "MySpace") - a site that is definitely
on the block list - and was not stopped. I alerted the powers-that-be,
and warned the relevant people within my schools, and the problem was
soon resolved.

Now it just so happens, that the day before I had already begun thinking
about this very topic and started formulating this post. Day after day I
hear of staff who sit removed from their students while the students
circumvent the filtering and accounting mechanisms we have in place.
Schools around the state add daily to the list of blocked sites in an
effort to keep our systems clean and safe. And it's a losing battle -
there are more of these sites then anyone could ever find. What we are
discovering is what we really should have already known: technology is a
poor substitute for real people. The only thing that will minimise the
abuse of these new technologies as they emerge is real hands-on teaching
that engages the students and keeps them interested in learning.

Please don't get me wrong - I know that teachers know this. I also know
how easy it is to say, but how difficult it is to achieve. Teachers are
already too busy, support staff stretched too thin. I know I could never
**be** a teacher, because I see how much work it takes. But working with
technology daily, I'm constantly reminded that we **cannot** rely on
technology too much. We certainly shouldn't rely on it to take our
place. Believing that a computer can replace a teacher is just begging
for trouble.

We need to daily examine how we teach. Like good computer maintenance we
should never get complacent or trust that our technology will always act
as we imagine it should. Every system we use, every piece of equipment
in place will fail. Nothing can prevent it if we imagine that it can
keep a young mind entertained, educated and safe without a human hand
guiding it.