{
    "date": "2010-01-22 05:14:45",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2010-01-22 05:14:45",
    "slug": "skribit-piss-off-formspring-skribit-was-here-first",
    "title": "Skribit - Piss off Formspring, Skribit was here first",
    "url": "\/skribit-piss-off-formspring-skribit-was-here-first\/",
    "tags": [
        "free software",
        "fun",
        "review",
        "skribit",
        "Tech"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Tech"
    ]
}[![Skribit.png](https://turbo.geekorium.com.au/images/Skribit.png){.s3-img}](http://skribit.com/)

There's this
[new](http://www.techcrunch.com/2010/01/04/formspring-ask-me-anything/)
[craze](http://gawker.com/5438956/formspringme-the-sociopathic-crack-cocaine-of-oversharing)
on Twitter ((I say new but it's been going a couple' months now)) to get
people to ask you questions anonymously and answer them on Twitter or
your website. It uses this little site (run by FormSpring.com) called
[formspring.me](http://formspring.me) to solicit questions, and people
derive some amusement from it.

**BUT**

The day I heard about it, I thought immedaitely of
[skribit.com](http://skribit.com) which I had only JUST installed on my
site a week earlier and does exactly what formspring.me does only
prettier, usefull-er and integrated-into-your-site-ier which for me are
all important things.

See that little blue tab over there -&gt; ??

That's the Skribit tab. It says "Suggestions", but if you hover over it,
it says Skribit too! Click it. I dare you. I'll wait. You can come back
by clicking the little (x) in the top right... Go on...

See that form? It lets you ask questions, just like Formspring. It even
lets you do it anonimously, just like Formspring. Unlike Formspring,
Skribit lets you add tags, follow questions until they're turned into
posts, and generally interract more with the person you're asking. But
it's not just for anonymous questions. [Paul
Stamatiou](http://paulstamatiou.com) (one of the creators) has been
using it on his site since he started building it, and his readers
suggest posts then vote on the topics that they want to see him write
about, which was the whole reason he made it in the first place. It's
all about curing *Writers Block*, which I own up to having about 99% of
the time ((the other 1% is when I'm in the shower and don't have a
pen)).

Well Skribit
[launched](http://www.techcrunch.com/2009/12/17/skribit-finally-launches/)
at the [end of last
year](http://skribit.com/blog/2009/12/16/launch-day-arrives/)! They've
been open for business for a while now, but they're pushing to get the
word out for twenty-ten ((that's right, I'm a twenty-tenner)), and I had
to write a post about it so I could tick that off [my Skribit to-do
list](http://skribit.com/blogs/josh-nunns-geekorium). So if you're
already using Formspring.me (bleh) or just want some feedback from your
readers in a way that makes you accountable and helps you keep track of
it then you should probably go install it. It keeps out of the way, and
it's kinda pretty. It's easy to install (there's a [Skribit widget for
Wordpress](http://skribit.com/wordpress) too) and integrates with
Twitter and Facebook so your lazy readers don't even have to log in! If
you're interested [try the tour](http://skribit.com/tour) to get a feel
for it (or just test it out here), or read about the [people who made
it](http://skribit.com/about)

And to my reader(s) ((hi Andrew, Dad, Mum)) you can leave me suggestions
on what you'd like me to write about, or ask anonymous questions, just
like all the cool kids are doing! Try it! ((Please!))

Of course this post's disparaging remarks against formspring were not
endorsed or condoned by Skribit ((and I have nothing against them
either)).