{
    "date": "2011-12-02 08:30:07",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2011-12-02 08:30:07",
    "slug": "space-flight-555-chapter-3-exit-past",
    "title": "Space Flight 555, Chapter 3: Exit, Past",
    "url": "\/space-flight-555-chapter-3-exit-past\/",
    "tags": [
        "industrial planet",
        "Mondex",
        "past",
        "plan",
        "present",
        "Rex Havoc",
        "six months",
        "the end",
        "Time Diversion"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Space Flight 704"
    ]
}**Rex waited for the universe to collapse.**

When it didn't, he wondered why.

They had cornered Mondex on an industrial planet three billion years in
the past. The natives were towering giants that barely noticed the
struggle for survival far below them. The Rexes had split up, thinking
they could get the drop on their old foe, but Rex had mistaken a crack
in the immense architecture to be an alley. By the time he had
backtracked, the younger Rex had confronted Mondex alone.

Mondex was desperate and cornered and unleashed his deadly energy beam
on Rex's earlier self. Rounding a corner, older Rex saw the situation
and ended the threat permanently, but it was too late. Young Rex took a
shot to the chest that burned and corroded and eventually consumes his
former self before his eyes.

Staggering, the remaining Rex tried to keep upright, but fell to his
knees. The impact of seeing himself killed hit him like a punch to the
stomach, and for a moment he wondered if it might be the beginning of
the end that must inevitably come. His mind was numb at the loss, but a
small part of him was not silent. It was pointing out that he wasn't yet
erased from time. Isn't that what was supposed to happen?

He certainly hadn't remembered being shot the first time around. Then
again, his memory of the time was getting hazy. He thought he remembered
meeting his future self, confronting Mondex, but then he couldn't
remember how it ended. Was this how it started, forgetting the original
timeline? He figured he had six months, maybe less before past Rex would
become future Rex. Would his memories of the first timeline be erased as
he failed to have them, until he too was gone? Would returning to the
future accelerate things?

Rex thought about his friends. The Professor, Jones - brilliant but
aloof, and the Princess.

The sweet Anrianna. He wished he'd spent more time with her before she'd
gone.

Maybe this was his chance! Perhaps he could spend some time with her
now, perhaps even prevent whatever happened to her. Obviously the past
could be changed. He could spend his last six months making sure she was
safe, and meet his end knowing that at least she was back where she was
meant to be.