{
    "date": "2010-04-05 11:17:30",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2010-04-05 11:17:30",
    "slug": "the-worst-movie-ive-seen-this-year",
    "title": "The Worst Movie I've Seen This Year",
    "url": "\/the-worst-movie-ive-seen-this-year\/",
    "tags": [
        "fun",
        "movie",
        "stupid"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Opinions"
    ]
}Unfortunately I have two movies that spring to mind when I was given
this suggestion:

bq.:http://skribit.com/suggestions/review-the-worst-movie-youve-seen-this-year
Review the worst movie you've seen this year.

The first is [*The Ugly Truth*(The Ugly Truth on
Rottentomatoes)](http://au.rottentomatoes.com/m/ugly_truth/) with
Whatserface and That Bloke who always seem to be in these awful movies.
Normally I would have steered clear of something like this ((14% on the
tomatometer![]())), but occasionally I have to watch a romantic comedy
so that my wife will keep watching SciFi with me.

![](https://turbo.geekorium.com.au/images/File-Ugly_truth.jpg)

Bleh

What a dreadful movie. I'm not sure there's much to be said beyond that.

The second was
[*Surrogates*](http://au.rottentomatoes.com/m/10009598-surrogates/) with
Bruce Willis. I had heard it wasn't fantastic, but the idea behind it
intrigued me: what if everyone lived their lives virtually through robot
simulacrum ((thanks P.K. Dick for that word!))?

![](https://turbo.geekorium.com.au/images/File-Surrogates2009MP.jpg)

Bruce Willis: Bored.

The movie's conceit is ridiculous in execution though, with almost the
entire world having chosen to live in little pods that feed sensory
input from their virtual bodies back to them. I cannot imagine anyone
but the elite and a select few ever going for it. The movie world is one
where doctors no longer espouse the benefits of sunlight or fresh air,
where muscles don't atrophy from under-use, and the technology is **so
good** that no one misses reality.

Except Bruce Willis of course.

He has that same sort of bemused look he has in every film. Except in
this one it doesn't suit. I also recently re-watched *12 Monkeys* and
the man can act, but when the script is bad, he just spends the entire
film with a little half-smirk like he knows something the director
doesn't. Well his character hates his virtual life for some reason. He's
a cop put on the trail of a man with technology to kill someone
**through** the surrogate. There's all sorts of interesting questions
that this raises ((one of which is WFT?)), but none of them are really
explored or adequately covered.

Which is the essence of this film really. The premise is interesting,
but the execution is flawed. About half way in the movie starts showing
all its cards until there are no surprises by the end. None of the
characters are "real", so you don't care about them in any way. The
technology is so magical you just cannot believe any of it.

The final indication that this was **not** a good film came about 2
minutes after Bruce Willis saved the entire planet ((from
themselves...)) and my wife woke up. Oh how I envied her.

Cheers Zombie\_Plan. Hope it was good for you too...