{
    "date": "2007-07-01 01:49:55",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2007-07-01 01:49:55",
    "slug": "the-one-where-josh-communicates-with-someone-in-another-language",
    "title": "The one where Josh communicates with someone in another language",
    "url": "\/the-one-where-josh-communicates-with-someone-in-another-language\/",
    "tags": [
        "commenters rock",
        "friend",
        "internet",
        "technology",
        "translation",
        "web"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Rambling"
    ]
}The Internet is so fun, I love it!

Was uploading some photos to my [PicasaWeb
album](http://picasaweb.google.com/nunn.joshua) and noticed that someone
had managed to find my photos and had left a
comment![](/a%3E%20Yay%20me)

It didn't bother me much that the comment was in what seemed to be
Spanish, or that for all I knew it could have been spam. But I did what
any curious geek would do: I ran it through [a
translator](http://translate.google.com/translate_t?hl=en).

> ES UNA HERMOOOOSURA ..\
> DE PERRITO =)\
> PUPPY,\
> EL DEL ANUNCIO DE PAPEL PARA LIMPIARSE EL CULO

Comment from my [photo
album](http://picasaweb.google.com/nunn.joshua/Puppy/photo#5047115752437123410 "My photo album")

becomes:

> IT IS A HERMOOOOSURA. OF SMALL DOG =) PUPPY, THE ONE OF THE
> ANNOUNCEMENT OF PAPER TO CLEAN THE ASS

Of course, this is NOT a satisfactory translation. It's almost offensive
at first glance - like they could be saying he should be used to wipe
someone's butt. Or something.

But I persevered. I tried &lt;a
href="http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&ct=res&cd=1&url=http%3A%2F%2Fbabelfish.altavista.com%2F&ei=lweHRvvSNovehAOrh-H\_CA&usg=AFQjCNGQdQs4wAXRxre-yW1fzrHPph42HQ&sig2=aR\_vqsuHd6aIX5jBowFiVg"&gt;Babelfish
with much the same result.

Hermoooosura didn't translate, and I guessed it might be spelt strangely
- like with to many o's for instance. But Google wouldn't translate
'hermosura' either. A quick search brought up [this
page](http://www.wordreference.com/es/en/translation.asp?spen=hermosura)
and [this
discussion](http://forum.wordreference.com/showthread.php?t=394652)
though, which says it means 'incredible beauty'. So I believe
'hermoooosura' is better translated as 'sooooo beautiful' - like a
[young girl](http://picasaweb.google.com/josehuerta04) might say about a
tiny white dog.

Realising that she was probably being nice, I kept trying to understand
the translation. Further poking around in translations sites helped me
realise that 'anuncio' while translated as 'announcement' can also be
translated '&lt;a
href="http://translate.google.com/translate\_dict?q=ANUNCIO&sa=N&hl=en&langpair=es|en"&gt;advertisement'
or 'ad'. I then quickly realised 'paper to clean the ass' (papel para
limpiarse el culo) is actually TOILET PAPER! And it all falls into
place. This is my rough translation:

> It is soooo beautiful and small =)\
> It looks like the puppy off the toilet paper ad.

Translated comment from my [photo
album](http://picasaweb.google.com/nunn.joshua/Puppy/photo#5047115752437123410 "My photo album")

What a lovely thing for a complete stranger to say! And how fantastic
that someone I've never met - who doesn't speak my language - can leave
me a message, and I actually have a chance to understand her. To
actually communicate across languages!

I have since learned that '&lt;a
href="http://translate.google.com/translate\_dict?q=perrito&sa=N&hl=en&langpair=es|en"&gt;perrito'
can be translated 'doggie' which is even cuter! and '&lt;a
href="http://translate.google.com/translate\_dict?q=LIMPIARSE&sa=N&hl=en&langpair=es|en"&gt;limpiarse'
conjures images of flossing! How marvellous is language?!

NOTE: I will post this on my education blog as well.