---
categories:
- Post
date: "2010-04-16 01:08:28"
draft: false
publishDate: "2010-04-16 01:08:28"
slug: the-massive-list-of-wave-resources
tags:
- blogging
- community
- fun
- opinion
- support
- use case
- users
title: The Massive (but not Exhaustive) List of Wave Resources
url: /the-massive-list-of-wave-resources/
---
When I started First Waves I wanted to keep my readers up to date with
Google Wave news and keep on top of changes and updates as they happen.
However, looking around the net I soon found many sites that already do
a great job of keeping up with Wave news, and I hate the idea of
rehashing the same stuff my readers could get at any number of excellent
sites. So instead I have started to concentrate on larger news and
"future direction" stuff here at First Waves, and I hope my readers are
OK with the focus.

But I realise that many people **do** want up-to-the minute Wave
information, so I'm going to lay out the sites and people I follow, and
if you're a hardcore Wave nut, you might like to follow them too. These
people all have my utmost respect and admiration for their writing and
dedication to Wave. I've included these sites in a Google Reader bundle
called [Best Google Wave
Sites](http://www.google.com/reader/bundle/user/16049416693875578456/bundle/The%20Best%20Google%20Wave%20Sites).
If you trust my judgement, you can use the bundle to subscribe to all
twenty-two feeds in just a couple of clicks! If you'd like to know more
about the sites though, read on!

### Wave Users - Hints and Tips

First and foremost, you cannot go past the Official [Google Wave
Blog](http://googlewave.blogspot.com/) - written by Googlers with news
information and tips. If you only subscribe to one **other** site
(ahem), this should be it. It's kind of a no-brainer though so lets move
on to some less obvious sites.

[The Shiny Wave](http://www.theshinywave.com/) by David Cook takes a
look at useful waves, gadgets and bots as well as the latest important
technological developments that could impact Google Wave. Once a month
he profiles the work of a talented Wave developer, and generally keeps a
close eye on the Wave development community.

[The Complete Guide to Google Wave](http://completewaveguide.com/)
Alright, this isn't a site to follow so much as a book, but it's written
by the enormously talented [Gina Trapani](http://ginatrapani.org/) with
[Adam Pash](http://adampash.com/). The site includes the entire book for
you to read for **free**, or you can get it in PDF or full colour print
versions for a very small fee. If you're just getting started in Google
Wave, there really is no other site you need to get your head around it.

[Google Wave Information](http://www.poojasrinivas.com/googlewave/) by
Pooja Srinivas (a Googler) is a compilation of Wave guides Pooja has
written. The focus is on brand new users who might find something like
the Complete Guide (above) too complicated. It also covers some unusual
and fun use cases for Wave.

[Waving At You](http://wavingatyou.tumblr.com/) by Russell Tripp is
where Russell puts all his tips and information on Google Wave to "ease
the learning curve" as he puts it. Waving At You and [Russell's Twitter
account](http://twitter.com/russelltripp) are where I found a lot of my
favourite Wave resources. His tips are simple, but always excellent.

[Waverz](http://www.waverz.com/) uses waves themselves to create the
articles. Using the *wavearchive@appspot.com* bot, an archived html copy
of a wave is made (at http://archive.waverz.com). You can then embed
this archive in a page using some simple javascript (or php or python on
the back end). Beyond this technical marvel though is an insightful site
written by a number of Wavers including one of my fave wavers Jon
Blossom and Dragon Silicon, who's work I've only just discovered while
writing this article.

[Google Wave
Possibilities](http://googlewavepossibilities.blogspot.com/) by Tim
Brown is another excellent source of Wave news. Tim is a "Wave Watcher"
- a group of Wave helpers - and for good reason. His site is full of
helpful information (like how to get started with particular bots), and
Google Wave news.

[Wave on Business](http://waveonbusiness.com/) is focussed on how
businesses might use Google Wave. The site incorporates presentations,
use case scenarios and information on collaboration.

[Google Wave Book](http://wave-book.com/) by Andrés Ferraté is a
companion site to the books [Getting Started with Google
Wave](http://oreilly.com/catalog/0636920000426) and [Google Wave: Up and
Running](http://oreilly.com/catalog/9780596806019). It is more than just
a catalogue for the books though, and contains insightful posts with
tips and ideas.

[Riding the Wave](http://www.riding-the-wave-prasun.com/) by Prasun Nair
has Wave news, but mixes in some news about other communications
technology such as telephones. The posts cover Wave news and information
on its future direction.

[Google Wave Info](http://www.googlewaveinfo.com/). The latest news and
information about Google Wave by an anonymous author. Some useful
information.

### Wave Developers

These sites are run by Wave developers for Wave developers and contain a
mix of the technical and informative. If you would like to dive in to
the nuts and bolts of Google Wave, these are a few of the best!

The [Google Wave Developer Blog](http://googlewavedev.blogspot.com/) is
the official blog for Google Wave developers. It's full of tips and
guides and helpful information for developers who are just starting out
with Wave and for Wave gurus too.

[Google Wave Samples Gallery](http://wave-samples-gallery.appspot.com/)
is the go-to place for new robots and gadgets as they come out.
Primarily a teaching resource, the extensions here are tagged with how
well they will teach you the concepts behind developing for Google Wave.
An excellent source of useful bots too!

[On Top of the Wave](http://www.onthetopofthewave.com/) by
[Kiwibcn](http://www.onthetopofthewave.com/) is a site run by a team of
developers to showcase their experiences developing for Google Wave. One
of their most popular posts is how to [Develop your first wave robot in
Java](http://www.onthetopofthewave.com/2009/11/develop-your-first-wave-robot-in-java-2/)
and clearly demonstrates their knowledge and their ability to teach.

[Wave.to](http://wave.to/) by
[@waveDOTto](http://www.twitter.com/wavedotto) is the home of the
developers of the [excellent Mr-Ray
extension](/its-easter-so-chill-out-try-wave-check-out-mr-ray-and-say-hello/),
plus many more. These guys clearly know their stuff, and they are
passionate about sharing it with the developer community and the public.

[With Waves](http://withwaves.com/) are a team of four developers who
have created a number of popular extensions including [Amazon and eBay
bots](http://withwaves.com/vote-for-mashable-content/) that insert
product listings into waves when you mention them. They have also
released their [Extension
Generator](http://withwaves.com/google-wave-extension-generator/) that
they use internally to build their own robots. That's generous!

[Mastering Wave](http://www.masteringwave.com/) by Daniel Graversen
follows the process of developing for Google Wave, as well as
highlighting important Wave news and tips. This site is one of the first
Wave sites I subscribed to.

[Process Wave](http://www.processwave.org/) is written by seven software
engineering students, and follows their process of developing from
[Invity](http://www.processwave.org/2009/12/invity-behind-scenes.html),
a group management bot, to [a collaborative modelling
tool](http://www.processwave.org/2010/04/screencast-of-modelling-tool-for-google.html)
integrating the open source ORYX software into Wave.

[Go Wave](http://go-wave.net/) hasn't been updated for little while now,
but has some good information about Robots, Gadgets and Embedding.

### Google Wave Sites by Region

The following Wave sites are written for specific communities and are
often in another language. **This should not be a problem**. I speak
nothing but English, but thanks to modern internet translation software
have no trouble reading and participating in these sites. If you
subscribe to these sites in Google Reader you can use the built in
translation function and you should have no troubles whatsoever.

#### Spanish

[WAVEsfera](http://www.wavesfera.com/) by David Alviz. David was an
enthusiastic commenter here on First Waves, so I followed him back to
WAVEsfera and discovered his site was in Spanish. Realising I was
missing out on some excellent tutorials and news I subscribed as soon as
I remembered that Google Reader does instant translation! I'm glad I did
- David updates almost twice daily (!) and is an endless font of
knowledge and excitement over Wave. Without David, I'd probably be
missing out on all the other excellent non-English wave resources below.

#### German

[Google Wave Surfer](http://blog.gwaver.net/) by Thomas Friebel has news
and information with particular focus on the Wave experience and how it
is changing over time. The site also includes [a
forum](http://blog.gwaver.net/forum/) for users to share their wave
experiences.

[Wave Inside](http://www.waveinside.de/) by Sascha Ahlers has shorter
updates than Google Wave Surfer, but they are no less informative. A
good resource for quick news.

#### French

[Google Wave France](http://www.wave-france.fr/) is maintained by three
authors who explore Wave use cases and report updates and changes as
they happen.

#### Russian

[Google Wave Russia](http://google-wave-russia.blogspot.com/) by Vadim
Barsukov has some in-depth articles from Q&A sessions with Lars "Google
Wave" Rassmussen. Some of the content appears to be English articles
translated to Russian, but there is some original content too.

### Everything else

Of course, this list is not meant to be complete. There are authors I've
not met, site's I've not found and tweets I've not seen. There are sites
like [Smarterware](http://smarterware.org/) or [Read Write
Web](http://www.readwriteweb.com/) that often cover Wave news, but
aren't dedicated to covering Wave. As I come across articles like this,
I'll add them to my "[Further Wave
Reading](http://www.google.com/reader/shared/user/16049416693875578456/label/google%20wave)"
list over on the left. I also re-tweet interesting Wave articles from
[@firstwaves](http://twitter.com/firstwaves) on Twitter. If you really
want to be in the loop, follow my Twitter list of [Wave
Geniuses](http://twitter.com/firstwaves/wave-genius) too!

I've also left off a **lot** of good resources and people that can be
found on Google Wave itself, as that will take another post entirely.
&lt;a
href="https://wave.google.com/wave/wavethis?t=Contact+from+First+Waves&r=nunn.joshua@googlewave.com"
title="Contact Josh via Google Wave"&gt;Ping me if you'd like to chat,
and I'm sure I can help you find some great people, and useful
resources.

If you know of some great Google Wave resources I haven't covered,
please let me know in the comments below!