{
    "date": "2011-11-11 12:30:14",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2011-11-11 12:30:14",
    "slug": "the-geekorium-turns-six",
    "title": "The Geekorium Turns Six!",
    "url": "\/the-geekorium-turns-six\/",
    "tags": [
        "happy birthday you thing from another world you",
        "six friggin' years"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Site News"
    ]
}It was six years ago on a [Sleepless
Night](//the.geekorium.com.au/2005-11/sleepless-nights/) that I wrote my
first blog post on what was then (maybe) not even my own domain. I
didn't set up nunnone.com with Google Mail for about a year after that
night so I might have used some hosted blogging environment, but I can
remember the night, if not the software. I thought it might be
therapeutic, and it *did* let me get a lot off my chest in those early
days.

[![Sixth](//turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2639761994_0cf28018e6_z1.jpg)](http://www.flickr.com/photos/scarequotes/2639761994/ "Sixth by James Callan, on Flickr")

[Sixth](http://www.flickr.com/photos/scarequotes/2639761994/ "Sixth by James Callan, on Flickr")
by [James
Callan](http://www.flickr.com/photos/scarequotes/%3C/figcaption%3E%3C/figure%3E)

I spun off a "godblog" for [religious
posts](//the.geekorium.com.au/read/blog/religion/) that documented my
dawning atheism, then later absorbed them back in. Since then I've done
the same for a number of ventures: [posts on
education](//the.geekorium.com.au/read/blog/education/) and more
recently [Google Wave](//the.geekorium.com.au/read/google-wave). But I
keep coming back here, where I can
[hone](//the.geekorium.com.au/2007-06/joshnunn-theme/)
[my](//the.geekorium.com.au/2007-12/loading-ready-run/)
[CSS](//the.geekorium.com.au/2007-12/claim-theme/)
[skills](//the.geekorium.com.au/2011-01/comic-book-hero/) and learn
about new products and
[technology](//the.geekorium.com.au/read/blog/tech/) as they come out.

The site has undergone some name changes. Once "Josh Nunn's Wee Blog"
(weeblog, weblog geddit? What in space was I thinking?) then simply
nunnone.com, now The Geekorium with its own domain, but the site has
been the same site with all the same content it originally had (I'm very
proud of that fact). Occasionally I clean up: there was a phase of
importing crap from all over that I've since deleted, and
[Disqus](//the.geekorium.com.au/2010-04/bye-bye-disqus/) butchered my
comments database at least 3 times leaving some posts with up to six
duplicates of each comment. But the essence of the site lives on,
eclectic, haphazard and unfocussed ((They're probably not the best
keywords for my SEO)).

Recently I've found a direction I enjoy - writing the adventures of [Rex
Havoc the space
adventurer](//the.geekorium.com.au/read/space-flight-704/). Some
stalwart friends have followed my meandering to this point and I hope
are enjoying the more structured posts. I'll still occasionally post
non-sequitur posts like this though, just to keep you on your toes. Hi
guys![]()

So here's to The Geekorium! Six up and down years, but six years I've
been happy to call this my own slice of the web. Welcome! Stay a while!
Have a drink ((pending HTML5 implimentation of the `<drink>` spec))![]()