{
    "date": "2010-05-19 18:15:06",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2010-05-19 18:15:06",
    "slug": "wave-this-widget",
    "title": "Wave This Widget for Wordpress",
    "url": "\/wave-this-widget\/",
    "tags": [
        "Google Wave",
        "sidebar",
        "wave",
        "wave this",
        "widget",
        "wordpress"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Invention"
    ]
}

Announcing the [Wave This Widget for
Wordpress](http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/wave-this-widget/).
Install this widget, add it to your sidebar and let your visitors share
your posts easily on Google Wave!

The Google Wave "Wave This" function takes the title of a post and a
short description and starts a new wave for you to add users to. It uses
the ["Wave This" API](http://code.google.com/apis/wave/wavethis/).

&lt;a
href="https://wave.google.com/wave/wavethis?t=Wave+This+Widget+for+Wordpress&c=%22This+sidebar+widget+adds+a+button+to+individual+post+pages+that+sends+the+post+title+and+exerpt+to+Wave.+If+you+haven%27t+set+an+exerpt+the+widget+uses+the+default+one+generated+by+Wordpress+for+each+post.+The+default+button+is+300px+wide+to+allow+for+larger+sidebars.+Please+resize+the+button+using+the+widget+options.%22"&gt;![Wave
This!](//turbo.geekorium.com.au/wp-content/uploads/button32.png)

This sidebar widget adds a button to individual post pages that sends
the post title and exerpt to Wave. If you haven't set an exerpt the
widget uses the default one generated by Wordpress for each post. The
default button is 300px wide to allow for larger sidebars. Please resize
the button using the widget options.

<span class="update">2010-06-16: Added the official button options from
Google.</span>

#### Latest Version

Version 0.3

#### Known Issues

-   Settings are not persistent across updates. I'll try to build this
    in soon.
-   ~~Does not use the official "Wave This" buttons from the API page.
    The official buttons can be linked though using the custom
    image feature.~~ Fixed: see update 16-06-10
-   Does not support Wave for domains other than the Google
    Wave Preview.

#### Support

If you need help with the Wave This Widget, leave a message here, or on
the [Wordpress Support
Forum](http://wordpress.org/tags/wave-this-widget?forum_id=10). At the
risk of fragmenting the support, you can also get in touch with me on Google Wave ((it
is a Wave plugin after all!)), or leave a message on [the official
plugin
wave](https://wave.google.com/wave/waveref/googlewave.com/w+eyiPS7ZkCp_)
~~<span class="here embedded"></span>~~.

#### Warranty

No warranty is given for this plugin.