{
    "date": "2009-08-14 13:31:03",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2009-08-14 13:31:03",
    "slug": "web-guysvs-real-programmers",
    "title": "\"Web Guys\"vs \"Real Programmers\"",
    "url": "\/web-guysvs-real-programmers\/",
    "tags": [
        "learning",
        "Programming",
        "web"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Opinions"
    ]
}[Michael J.
Braude](http://michaelbraude.blogspot.com/2009/05/why-ill-never-be-web-guy.html)
wrote a post on why he'll never be a "web guy". The gist being, the
annoyances of writing for the web are not the sort of challenges he
wants to tackle as a programmer.

Then [Jeff
Atwood](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/archives/001296.html) gave his
two cents on why programming for the web is where it's at — it's fast,
it gets seen by more people, and more and more great apps are being made
on the web.

I'm sure Michael has a point. I think the way he said it got up Jeff's
nose a little (it certainly got up mine), but it's valid. For some, the
web just seems simple and trite. My lecturer thinks like this I suspect.
I also agree with Jeff that it's somewhat myopic — if you dismiss web
apps, you dismiss a *lot* of clever, well written programs right out of
the gate.

The debate got me thinking about why I'm studying programming. I'm a web
guy, but not even "smart enough" to "throw an ASP.NET webpage together".
But I see the innovation in web pages. I also see how useful these
technologies will be moving forward. While Michael is coding apps that
will work on one type of system sitting on someone's desk, programmers
like Jeff are making universally accessible programs that are instantly
available to anyone with access to the internet. I could learn to
regurgitate borrowed code in half-arsed web pages and validate Michael's
argument, but I'd rather learn to do it properly.

When I was leaving high school and thinking about what to study, the web
was just starting to become mainstream. One teacher I got advice from
had been programming years earlier and painted a picture of a world of
drudgery, typing pre-written code without chance for innovation or
personal expression. It was not a nice picture. I probably let myself be
swayed by it too much I'm sad to say now.

What I discovered in the years after, is how exciting the world of web
programming can be. Instead of being a small cog in a giant programming
machine, a web programmer can be a vital part of a small team who's work
can be seen instantly. Of course I know now the same can be said of
non-web programming, but the web was what opened my eyes.

So I'm going back to study to do something I should have done all along.
And I'm going so I can understand: "virtual methods, pointers,
references, garbage collection, finalizers, pass-by-reference vs.
pass-by-value, virtual C++ destructors, or the differences between C\#
structs and classes". And then I'm going to use that knowledge to make
the best web programs I can make. Maybe along the way I'll learn enough
that web programming seems trite to me too, but I'm not expecting to. I
agree with Jeff, and strongly believe good web apps are only going to
become more important.

I want a slice of that action.