{
    "date": "2006-03-21 03:06:02",
    "draft": false,
    "publishDate": "2006-03-21 03:06:02",
    "slug": "yet-another-use-for-gmail-file-recovery",
    "title": "Yet another use for Gmail - file recovery",
    "url": "\/yet-another-use-for-gmail-file-recovery\/",
    "tags": [
        "gmail",
        "google"
    ],
    "categories": [
        "Tech"
    ]
}I recently discovered another use for Gmail's 'convert to html' feature.

For those of you who weren't aware, Word and PDF files that you receive
in Gmail can be opened in-browser as html files. What this means for you
and me is a simple way to open some of these common file-types without
needing to download the file and fire up the correct program - simply
click 'Open as HTML' and you've got your file, ready to read in seconds
using Google's conversion.

I was reading Lifehacker's article on this very feature - [Travel tip:
Use Gmail as a file
viewer](http://www.lifehacker.com/software/gmail-tips/travel-tip-use-gmail-as-a-file-viewer-161462.php),
and was reminded of a discovery I made a few weeks back. My ma asked me
to recover a seemingly corrupted file for my sister. Their PC wouldn't
open the Word document (an all too common experience) and I was unable
to offer much help over the phone. I asked her to send it to me (via my
Gmail account) so I might try it on my own computer. When it arrived I
remembered the 'convert to html' feature and gave it a shot, thinking it
couldn't hurt to try. To my surprise, it worked! Gmail opened the file
with no issues.

I tried to open it on my Mac, and it worked - so the story isn't so
amazing - and I've since tried other files that haven't opened.

But you've nothing to lose if you have a file that really need to open
(and if you haven't a Mac handy) give Gmail a try - another tool in
**my** file rescue kit!

Oh, and if you want a Gmail account, you can [sign up from a text
message sent to your
mobile](https://www.google.com/accounts/SmsMailSignup1) - apparently
even in Australia now. Or leave a comment and I can hook you up! [Check
out why](http://mail.google.com/mail/help/about.html) Gmail has
developed such a huge fan-base.